6 Reasons Why You Should Be A Guest on Podcasts.

Tersoo Umah
April 27, 2023
Did you know that 60% of podcast listeners have bought products because of an ad they heard on a podcast? And unlike other digital platforms where you can click through when you see an ad, for podcasts, you have to (on your own) search for the said product or go to the episode show notes to look for the link.

Quite a cumbersome process, yet many people have taken these steps because of an ad that usually lasts a few seconds. Then imagine the opportunities that abound when the same listeners listen to one person speak for 20-40 minutes.

Right now, there is a podcast for every topic. Think of any audience in any industry, and you will find tens to hundreds of podcasts targeting that group. 

This means anyone can take advantage of podcasts’ opportunities, regardless of their niche. And by anyone, I mean the podcast owner/hosts, the advertisers, and for this short article, the Guests.

Podcast guests not only have the chance to showcase their products & and services but also connect with the listeners and podcast hosts on a deeper level than a few seconds ad would allow. 

And if you intend to supercharge your inbound marketing efforts, putting yourself in the ears and minds of such a ready audience through podcast guesting is a super profitable way to go.

Here are 6 benefits you’d enjoy by being a podcast guest.

Exposure to one of the most engaged audiences.
Remember how this article started by saying, “60% of listeners have bought a product because of a podcast ad”? With over 400 million podcast listeners globally, you can say that’s A LOT of people willing to take one of the most critical steps in a customer’s journey. 

Buying.

This gives a great idea of how engaged podcast listeners are, and being a guest on a show (or multiple shows) offers you the opportunity to tap into such a targeted and ready (to-pay) audience.

Supercharge Your Content Marketing.
A single podcast interview can be repurposed in countless ways. For example, you can use the transcripts as a blog post, share snippets and quotes from the interview on social media & to your email list, and even use them as references for related blog posts.

And let’s not forget that many interviews are recorded in video format, allowing you to be visible on Video platforms as well.

Immense Production Value
Running your own podcast is hard, time-consuming, and expensive. After a recording session, the podcast owner/host will also need to edit the interview, create promotional materials (like custom graphics, video clips, and copy in the show notes and transcripts), distribute the materials to all platforms, and so on.

As a guest, the most you’d do is share the episode on your platforms and to your audiences with the materials already prepared by the podcast owner—smooth sailing for great visibility.

Develop Deeper Connections
Podcast interviews allow expressing your knowledge and expertise at length to many people who didn’t ordinarily know you before then. Not just the audience but the podcast host as well.

This means a deeper understanding of who you are and what you stand for and creating a bond across all parties. It is common for the host to collaborate with the guest after an interview and even introduce/recommend them to other podcast hosts and leaders in the industry. It’s a fantastic network opportunity.

Build your Thought Leadership
Ever attended an event/conference where a speaker showed profound knowledge and insight on a topic, and you thought, “this man/woman knows their stuff. I’d follow them to know more”? 

Well, podcasts provide you with a similar opportunity.

Being a guest on an episode also serves as an endorsement by the podcast host. If you do an awesome job in sharing your message and expertise thoughtfully and articulately, you’ll most likely get a seal of approval from the audience.

Sales and Leads
Unlike regular ads, where you need to grab attention and pass your message in seconds, podcasts can go from 20 minutes to over an hour. This gives you plenty of time to build familiarity and enhance your credibility with your target audience, taking them through an entire journey from awareness to consideration, making it even easier to patronize you.

And you know what’s amazing? You can generate leads from a single episode even for years to come.

Conclusion
Podcast guesting is one of the most powerful inbound marketing strategies for targeted groups, with many upsides. It is a cost-effective way to generate direct leads and revenue long-term and an opportunity to build credibility and authority within your space. 

But let’s be clear; as a podcast guest, your primary aim is to provide value to your host’s audience and not to sell. Only then will you enjoy the full benefits of your podcast guesting efforts.

If you need help connecting to relevant podcasts to showcase your expertise, click the button below to get in touch with me.

 Blog No Comments
Tersoo Umah 
Tersoo Umah
A nerd for Marketing, Partnerships, eCommerce and Tech.