How to Leverage Podcast Guesting for Your Personal Brand

Tersoo Umah
May 18, 2023
Have you ever had that moment when listening to a (favorite) podcast with a guest speaker on, and you couldn’t help but think, “Wow, this person really knows their stuff.”

If you have, you’re certainly not alone, as many people listening to many podcasts spanning across industries and niches have had that exact reaction.

Now, you, the listener, get unique insights and fantastic knowledge about a topic on your favorite show. But for the guest, they’re getting plenty of exposure and validation to both new and familiar audiences.

That’s the power of podcast guesting—giving Founders, CEOs, Marketers, and Experts the platform to share their message, build their authority, and promote their products and services.

And the best part? It’s all done to an already nurtured, engaged, and niched audience.

Now if this sounds remotely exciting and you’re thinking about where and how you could start leveraging Podcast Guesting, then this piece will do just that for you. This is the exact process we use for our clients, so it’s a time-tested process that guarantees results.

Step 1:
Identify Relevant Podcasts:
The first step is to identify podcasts that align with your industry, niche, and target audience. You want to avoid half-assing this step as it is supercritical. There are niches within niches, and you want to avoid targeting the wrong niche simply because they all fall under the same category.

For example, our client had knowledge that caters to the eCommerce industry. However, his app and business model cater primarily to D2C (Direct-to-Consumer) eCommerce brands. 

So, Amazon FBA and Dropshipping brands were different from his target market.

With that, we ensured the shows we put him on were explicitly targeted to D2C audiences that would benefit more from his knowledge and patronize his services.

Get the point?

When doing your research, the types of guests they feature and their podcast format will help you identify the suitable podcasts for you. 

If you need help finding relevant shows, platforms like Spotify, Google podcasts, Apple Podcasts and Listennotes as great directories you can use.

Step 2:
Craft a Compelling Pitch:
So you’ve identified potential podcast opportunities. Awesome.

Now it’s time to craft a compelling pitch that showcases your expertise and what you can offer as a guest.

Begin by expressing your admiration for their show and highlight the episode that resonated most with you. Outline your expertise and experience, emphasizing how you will provide value to their audience. 

Share with them a few compelling topics you can discuss to demonstrate your unique insights. 

You can pitch them over email, or their active Social Media DMs can work wonderfully too. Try to follow up 3-4 times for optimum results because more than one message may be needed to get their attention.

Step 3:
Prepare for the Interview:
To have a very engaging interview, preparation is everything. 

Full disclosure; getting on podcasts can be nerve-wracking, as even seasoned guest speakers have testified. However, it becomes easier if you have some things ready beforehand. Listening to one (or more) episodes will help you understand the host’s interviewing style and tone.

Another way to prepare is to research the host’s and audience’s background and tailor your talking points according to your findings. Also, set out key messages that align with your brand and product beforehand.

And finally, practice speaking. Have mini-sessions with a friend or colleague. This could help you get more comfortable before the podcast interview session.

Step 4:
Deliver Value and Build Relationships:
During the podcast interview, focus on providing valuable insights, actionable advice, and engaging stories that resonate with the audience. Your unique perspectives and personal experiences will set you apart and make you relatable and memorable.

Remember, you’re not there to promote yourself but to provide value to the audience and build meaningful relationships with the host.

How well you do that will directly affect how interested they’ll be in you and your offer in the future.

Step 5:
Amplify Your Appearance:
Your podcast episode is finally live, so what next?

Now you expand your reach!

From a single podcast episode, you can get multiple blog posts on your website, numerous texts, and video content to upload across your online platforms. 

Use the recording from the interview to create different content materials. From it, share summaries of the key takeaways and encourage your audience to tune in.

Some hosts even take steps to create these content assets for you to upload on your platforms but make sure to create your own.

And always remember to tag the podcast hosts in every post, as it helps foster and strengthen your relationship with them.

Conclusion
As you leverage podcast guesting, remember that the impact doesn’t end with the interview. By sharing the episodes across your online platforms and creating additional content that expands the topic you discussed, you maximize your visibility and supercharge your existing content marketing strategy.

So take the leap and embrace the power of podcast guesting and watch your brand flourish.

And if you need help to get it all done for you, reach out to us via the button below.

 Uncategorized No Comments
Tersoo Umah 
Tersoo Umah
A nerd for Marketing, Partnerships, eCommerce and Tech.